FF-Docker (Production)
======================

FF-Docker runs in production on AWS Elastic Container Service, meant to be orchestrated from the 4dn-cloud-infra repository. End users will modify the ``Makefile`` to suite their immediate build needs with respect to target AWS Account/ECR Repository/Tagging strategy.
Note that builds should be automated through AWS CodeBuild. For more information on the specifics of the ECS setup, see 4dn-cloud-infra.

The FF Application has been orchestrated into the ECS Service/Task paradigm. As of writing all core application services are built into the same Docker image. Which entrypoint to run is configured by environment variable passed to the ECS Task. As such, we have 4 separate services described by the following table:

+------------+--------------------------------+-----+------+------+-----+--------------------------+
| Kind       | Use                            | Num | Spot | vCPU | Mem | Notes                    |
+============+================================+=====+======+======+=====+==========================+
| Portal     | Services standard API requests | 1-4 | Yes  |  4   |8192 | Needs autoscaling        |
+------------+--------------------------------+-----+------+------+-----+--------------------------+
| Indexer    | Hits /index at 1sec            | 4 + | Yes  | .25  | 512 | Can auto-scale based on  |
|            | intervals indefinitely.        |     |      |      |     | Queue Depth              |
+------------+--------------------------------+-----+------+------+-----+--------------------------+


Building an Image
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

NOTE: the following documentation is preserved for historical reasons in order to understand the build process.
YOU SHOULD NOT BUILD PRODUCTION IMAGES LOCALLY. ALWAYS USE CODEBUILD.

The production application configuration is in ``deploy/docker/production``. A description of all the relevant files follows.

    * Dockerfile - at repo top level - configurable file containing the Docker build instructions for all local and production images.
    * docker-compose.yml - at repo top level - configures the local deployment, unused in production.
    * assume_identity.py - script for pulling global application configuration from Secrets Manager. Note that this secret is meant to be generated by the Datastore stack in 4dn-cloud-infra and manually filled out. Note that the ``$IDENTITY`` option configures which secret is used by the application workers and is passed to ECS Task definitions by 4dn-cloud-infra.
    * entrypoint.sh - resolves which entrypoint is used based on ``$application_type``
    * entrypoint_portal.sh - serves portal API requests
    * entrypoint_deployment.sh - deployment entrypoint
    * entrypoint_indexer.sh - indexer entrypoint
    * install_nginx.sh - script for pulling in nginx
    * fourfront_any_alpha.ini - base ini file used to build production.ini on the server given variables set in the GAC
    * nginx.conf - nginx configuration


The following instructions describe how to build and push images. Note though that we assume an existing ECS setup. For instructions on how to orchestrate ECS, see 4dn-cloud-infra, but that is not the focus of this documentation.

    1. Ensure the orchestrator credentials are sourced, or that your IAM user has been granted sufficient perms to push to ECR.
    2. Run ``make ecr-login``, which should pull ECR credentials using the currently active AWS credentials.
    3. Run ``make build-docker-production``.
    4. Navigate to Foursight and queue the cluster update check. After around 5 minutes, the new images should be coming online. You can monitor the progress from the Target Groups console on AWS.

Tagging Strategy
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

As stated previously, there is a single image tag, typically ``latest``, that determines the image tag that ECS will use. This tag is configurable from the 4dn-cloud-infra repository.

After a new image version has been pushed, issue a forced deployment update to the ECS cluster through Foursight. This action will spawn a new set of tasks for all services using the newer image tags. For the portal, once the new tasks are deemed healthy by ECS and the Application Load Balancer, they will be added to the Portal Target Group and immediately begin serving requests. At that time the old tasks will begin the de-registration process from the target group, after which they will be spun down. The remaining new tasks will come online more quickly since they do not need to pass load balancer health checks. Once the old tasks have been cleaned up, it is safe to trigger a deployment task through the Deployment Service.

Common Issues
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In this section we detail some common errors and what to do about them. This section should be updated as more development in this setup occurs.

1. ``Error: denied: User:<ARN> is not authorized to perform: ecr:InitiateLayerUpload on resource: <ECR REPO URL>``

This error can happen for several reasons:
    * Invalid/incorrect IAM credentials
    * IAM user has insufficient permissions
    * IAM credentials are valid but from a different AWS account

